I wanted to come back to what you raised
earlier which is what is meant by
personality so personality and contrast
to identity right and I think probably
what she means here is being the sort of
person who has something to assert not
just who is assertive but someone who
when talking to co-workers or family
members or something is in effect
low-key in a constant state of conflict
because they have contrasting views that
they want to assert right now why would
that be the case I was thinking about
this the other day I mean some of these
women I forget about but there was a
woman a good-looking blonde my type I
mean frankly she kind of look like you
know some hell no she was she really had
the same sort of very feminine face but
I remember this woman who sat down next
to me on a bus in Laos and in the
surgery she was a white blonde woman who
said that making it sterilization and
really looking back on it she probably
was interested in getting into bed with
me I was looking back on it was like why
was I like why was I so negative towards
her why did I completely you know shut
her down like yeah I had a lot of
personality like I had a lot of things
to assert right like is it really
positive like you know I was living in a
situation where most of the other white
men around me were like alcoholic
sleeping with prostitutes and there's
always this sense of asserting that's
not who I am in terms of how I looked I
was I was younger that I am now but I
was doing 100 push-ups a day not 200
maybe and riding a bicycle and stuff
people thought I was in the US military
and I was living in a country that had
been completely destroyed by the US
military
Laos more bombs were dropped on Laos
than were dropped on Germany and Japan
combined in World War two
so was country destroyed by American
militarism and people think I mean the
US mother's I have to assert I'm not in
the army not that kind of guy
you know and I'm not ex-military either
I'm not pro-american no I don't support
like in that war I'm not here making
excuses for what the Americans do being
being good at something and then even
within Buddhism right well for one thing
the Buddhist eat meat and drink alcohol
you know I don't eat meat at all but I'm
not this kind of hippy Buddhist I'm not
cool with any and if the [ __ ] within
that religion so I'm living in a state
of many uncomfortable contradictions and
I'm always asserting my personality in
contrast to people's expectations of me
or the demands they're putting on me
therefore I have a personality right but
it arises through contrasting opposites
its perceptual right like also by the
way living in Laos people thought I was
fat because everyone else is so skinny
it didn't actually use the word fat but
know that I was consider just considered
enormous in all directions but I mean
these things arise their relative their
their contrast but this is purely you
know psychological and based on values
it's not based on anything with physical
limits like being fat versus being thin
now look what if I had been in a
cultural context where I wasn't
challenged on those things how much
personality do I really have you know I
want to conform I'm a nonconformist
because I live in a society that I
despise and a society that despises me
and that's not just true of Laos and
Cambodia that's incredibly true of say
Toronto Canada and you know again then
there are different contrasts like I'm
not a communist is when I grew up around
cockiness so whole you know this this
person we don't know that much better
obviously having a personality whether
it's good or bad
the reality is you would arrive at that
point of both being perceived as someone
who has a personality and actually being
a personality if you get out and do work
and you know engage the world even if
it's something like you study volcanoes
whatever it is and then you're living in
a context where you have to assert your
personality rather than conform to or
succumb to things that you despise so I
mean so in a meaningful sense I think
being a concert having a personality
means living in a constant state of
contradiction is that people are saying
things to you or inviting you to do
things even I was I would get invited to
go and watch soccer you know obviously
from the British before they all come
have a beer and watch soccer and I've
got to assert back that's not who I am
this is who I like you think that's who
I am
I'm not even insulted that's not who I
am I well you know whatever the thing is
you're being you're being invited to so
look I'm gonna sympathize I think you
know she gets the point that we're both
saying sure if you really don't have
something meaningful in your life you
got to take on projects and so on but
probably a lot of what you're thinking
about in terms of personality has to do
with this kind of challenge mutual
challenge contrast and contradiction
[Music]